So now we need to start writing
the code for the interceptor.
So I'll just go ahead and set up
the basic imports here for this class.
Then I set up the class declaration
AuthInterceptorService implements HttpInterceptor
The HttpInterceptor is an interface,
defined in the angular framework
and so it has a method that we'll have to implement
as part of our coding.
And for our constructor,
we're going to inject the OktaAuthService
because we'll actually use that a little bit later
to get the current access token
for the user that's logged in.
And remember I say that the HttpInterceptor
is an angular interface.
So we'll actually implement that interface
and that one method that we have
to implement is called Intercept.
So here's the coding for it here.
So they simply pass in a Request,
the next Handler
and the Returns and Observable.
This will basically intercept all outgoing HTTP requests
of the HttpClient that we're making use of.
Now we have a return and we have this.handleAccess.
So it's just a little helper method that we've defined
in this class.
So I have this.handleAccess,
has a request and the next handler.
Note here there's a new keyword
at the beginning called async.
So that says that this is an asynchronous function
and this method will also return a Promise.
And so a Promise is basically a way of having a future.
So you're saying,
hey, we're going to perform this operation
and we're going to turn our value in the future.
And this is the type of data that we're going to return.
So it's kind of like
a ticket or like an IOU
and we'll eventually return that data back to
the calling program.
We only want to add an access token
for our secured endpoints.
So here I'll just set up this very basic array
of a securedEndpoints/api/orders.
And then I check to see if the secured endpoints is
in the current URL that the user is making a call for.
If so, then I'll get the access token
so I'll use this.oktaAuth.getAccessToken.
Now this getAccesToken is a
async call.
And what we'll do is we'll make use
of this new keyword called await.
So this is some very nice syntactic sugar
available in TypeScript
where you can wait
for the async call to finish
without having to get into any special coding syntax
or whatever.
So it's basically saying,
Hey, we're making this async call
to a promise
and we are going to wait
on the results and then those results
then we'll assign it to our given access token.
And so, now we go through and we clone the request
and we add a new header with our access token.
Here I say, request = request.clone.
And then I add in that new header.
So remember right,
we're setting a new header.
So the header is Authorization: "Bearer"
and then we give the actual value
of our accessToken.
So we're basically,
we're adding a new header here.
Now you may wonder why am I cloning the request?
Well, the request is immutable.
That means that you can't change the request directly.
So the only way you can make changes here
is create a copy of that request
and then make your changes accordingly.
So that's why we do a request.clone
and then we add in new headers there
and that's the reasoning for that coding syntax.
And then down at the bottom,
we return next.handle(requests).toPromise.
Effectively this will basically pass the request
to the next interceptor in the chain.
If there are no more interceptors in the chain,
it simply makes a call
to the destination
API that you're making a call for.
Okay, great. So kind of standing back a bit
and we see here in the bottom left,
we have the setup
in place that we have our client angler app
use the HTTP client,
calls our interceptor
that intercept that basically adds the access token
and it puts it into the request header
for Authorization: "Bearer"
and the value of that access token.
All right, step two is updating the app.module.ts
to reference the interceptor.
So we'll move into our app.module.ts file
we have our normal declarations and imports.
And then here for providers,
we'll basically set up a reference here for the interceptor.
So we make use of provide: HTTP_INTERCEPTORS
so that's the token for the HttpInterceptors.
And so now we register our AuthInterceptorService
as an HttpInterceptor,
and then for the multi: true
this informs angler that the HttpInterceptors as a token
for injecting an array of values,
because remember with these interceptors,
you can have zero to many interceptors.
Now the word token here
it's kind of overloaded.
Don't get confused.
So, they're not really referring
to the JWT token or the access token or whatever.
They're just referring to a token in a general sense.
So basically like a string or like a hash maps
like a key or whatever.
That's their use of it in this fashion
but I use the word token here because
when you look at the interceptor documentation,
they make use of that same
reference or terminology.
Visit the link that I have here on this slide,
it'll take you to a page that has additional resources
on these topics.
And they're very useful.
All right, well, this all looks really good.
I'm excited.
I'm ready to dive into the IDE
and start writing some code.
So I'll see you in the next video.